Notes concerning the Curve25519 implementation
==============================================

Cu25519 keys
------------

The normal X25519 DH as defined in the original Curve25519 paper uses only
the Montgomery u coordinate of the point. Bit 255 is defined to be zero,
although most implementations just ignore it. We refer to this type of public
key as a X25519 key. X25519 keys have bit 255 set to zero and bits 0-254
contain the Montgomery u coordinate.

The Ed25519 paper defines the public key as having in bits 0-254 the Edwards
y coordinate and in bit 255 the least significant bit of the Edwards x
coordinate. It calls this last bit the sign bit. We refer to these keys as
Ed25519 keys.

We define another type of key, the Cu25519 keys. These keys have the
Montgomery u coordinate in bits 0-254 and the sign bit (the least significant
bit of the Edwards X coordinate) in bit 255. Given that most existing
implementations ignore bit 255 when performing DH we can use Cu25519 keys
whenever a X25519 key is required. Therefore the Cu25519 key is a full
replacement for the X25519 key. In addition it is possible to decompress the
Cu25519 key to extended Edwards coordinates as efficiently as the
decompression from Ed25519 coordinates. See
https://moderncrypto.org/mail-archive/curves/2015/000376.html for more
information. Also storing an Edwards point in Cu25519 format is as efficient
as storing it in Ed25519 format. Both require just one exponentiation.
Therefore we can transmit points in Cu25519 format whenever the Ed25519 would
be required.

The alternative format would be to keep the Ed25519 format: Edwards Y
coordinate with the sign bit of the Edwards X coordinate. Both Ed25519 and
Cu25519 are equivalent and it is possible to transform each of them into the
other format. The grounds for the use of Cu25519 (Montgomery U with the sign
bit of Edwards X) are that it can be directly used without point
decompression or point verification with the Montgomery ladder for DH. For
the other uses we have to decompress it to full Edwards form. Decompressing
from Ed25519 or from Cu25519 takes the same time. Therefore the Cu25519 format
combines the advantages of Ed25519 with the direct applicability of the
Montgomery ladder.


Signing without Ed25519 public keys
-----------------------------------

The standard Ed25519 signatures compute the hash H(R,A,M), both when signing
and when verifying. A is the public key of the signer. As stated in the
Ed25519 paper A is introduced in the hash to prevent attacks where several
keys are attacked simultaneously. It is not important what is A, as long as
it is unique to each key. In Ed25519 A is set to be the public Ed25519 key of
the signer, but we could also put the Cu25519 key as well. If we want to keep
compatibility with Ed25519 signatures we must still keep A=Ed25519. When
verifying the signature we can provide the public point of the signer in
either the Ed25519 or the Cu25519 format. When decompressing the point from
the Cu25519 format we get the Ed25519 value for free (it does not require any
inversion or multiplication after the decompression, because Z == 1). Thus we
can verify Ed25519 compatible signatures with either Ed25519 or Cu25519 keys
in the same time.

When creating Ed25519 compatible signatures we need to use the Ed25519 key
for the computation of H(R,A,M). If we only have the scalar or the Cu25519
key we need to compute Ed25519 by using y = (u - 1)/(u + 1) but this requires
an inversion and adds some measurable overhead to the signing process. We
might cache this value, but it would require that we keep around three 32
byte items instead of two: the private scalar, the public Cu25519 key and the
Ed25519 key. Note that the Ed25519 key would be required only for signing, it
would not be required for verifying. We can simplify key management if we
abandon Ed25519 compatibility.

If we use H(R,A,M) with A=Cu25519 we still have all the security properties
of Ed25519, but we do not need to use Ed25519 keys anywhere. When signing we
need the public key only in the computation of H(R,A,M). When verifying we
decompress the point from the Cu25519 key and we compute H(R,A,M) using the
Cu25519 key. We can then sign and verify using only Cu25519 keys. We get
simplified key management in exchange for Ed25519-SHA512 compatibility. One
single private key is used for signing and decrypting and one single public
key is used for verifying and encrypting. Once that we have decided to
abandon Ed25519 compatibility we can also replace SHA-512 with a more modern
alternative, Blake2b.



Negating the scalar / XEd25519
------------------------------

The negate_scalar() function applies the conversion stated in
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-jivsov-ecc-compact-05. If you have a public
and private key pair, {a, A=aB } then you can choose a private key nega = -a
mod L, where L = order of B. In this case the public key will be the same as
A except for the sign bit. If we have an existing X25519 private key whose
public Ed25519 key would have the sign bit set then we can obtain the same
public Ed25519 key with the sign bit clear by replacing the private key with
its negative mod L. Note that if we start from a private key that has been
prepared for X25519 DH then it has bit 254 set and the lowest 3 bits cleared.
The purpose of this bit masking is:

 - make the scalar a multiple of the cofactor (8). If we carry out DH with
   this scalar and Mallory gives us a small order point then the resulting
   shared secret will be zero.

 - ensure that the highest bit of the scalar is set. Somebody may use a
   non-constant time implementation of scalar multiplication. Some of these
   implementations search for the most significant bit which is set and skip
   the reset. By fixing this bit we make sure that they will be constant time.

 - ensure that the scalar is not the order of the group or a multiple of it.
   All multiples of the order that are less than 2²⁵⁵ - 19 do not fit the
   mask.

The private key obtained by negating the X25519 key will not have these bits
set as expected by X25519. Therefore the negated key should not be used for
X25519 DH. DJB specifies this bit masking for Ed25519 too.

XEd25519 states that the private scalar should be negated if required so that
we always get a public key with the sign bit set to zero. XEd25519 seems to
be designed to solve the problem of introducing signatures using X25519 keys
that were already distributed and do not have a sign bit. Furthermore
XEd25519 still requires using the public Ed25519 key when signing (A=Ed25519
when computing H(R,A,M)). The negation operation is very fast and has no
measurable impact in the speed of signing. However computing the Ed25519 key
from either the scalar or the public X25519 key adds a measurable overhead to
the signing operation. This forces us to keep the Ed25519 key around and also
to keep track of the sign bit to figure out if we need to negate the private
scalar. Thus XEd25519 requires more complex key management for signing: in
addition to the scalar and public X25519 keys required for DH we need to keep
the Ed25519 key without the sign bit and also a sign bit.

We do not have the problem of using X25519 keys without sign bits. Our key
generation routines always compute the sign bit. Therefore it is much easier
to just have the private scalar and the public Cu25519 key and use them for
signing too without any special cases.

Sometimes it is objected that this would require implementations that only do
DH key agreement to also implement Edwards arithmetic. This would increase
the complexity significantly. However it is possible to use the existing
Montgomery ladder to compute the sign bit without any significant overhead,
either in time or code complexity. You can see this in the
montgomery_ladder() routine. Therefore even the simple DH implementations can
produce the sign bit without noticeable overhead. Note that Elligator2
already requires the v coordinate.


Scalar Multiplication
---------------------

There are several functions that perform scalar multiplications. The most
general ones are *scalarmult()* and *scalarmult_fw()*. Both perform constant
time scalar multiplication with arbitrary bases. Scalarmult uses the
canonical double and add algorithm, it requires 254 point doublings and 254
point additions. Scalarmult_fw uses the fixed window version, which requires
254 point doublings and 64 point additions.

The functions *montgomery_ladder_uv()*, *montgomery_ladder()* and
*montgomery_base()* use the Montgomery ladder to compute the scalar product,
including the Y coordinate. They require the starting u and v Montgomery
coordinates of the base point. The version that takes Edwards coordinates
converts internally to Montgomery before running the ladder. The Montgomery
ladder (even with conversion) is faster than the *scalarmult_fw()*. Like
scalarmult_fw() it requires a constant time and accepts any base point.

The functions *scalarmult_wnaf()* use the windowed NAF algorithm to perform
the multiplication. They are not constant in time and cannot be used with
secret points or scalars. They are faster that the other functions mentioned
above.

The function *scalarbase()* performs constant time multiplication using 64
point additions of precomputed multiples of the base point. This function is
the fastest one from all of the above but works only with the base point.

The key generation and signing require a constant time scalar multiplication
using the base point. This is best achieved with *scalarbase()*. The
signature verification does not require a constant time implementation, but a
double scalar multiplication. This is done with *scalarmult_wnaf()*. The DH
key agreement requires a constant time scalar multiplication with arbitrary
base points. This is done with the Montgomery ladder.


Field Representation
--------------------

The Curve25519 is defined in the field of prime 2²⁵⁵ - 19. We must represent
255 bit integers using what is available in C++. We represent it using
several limbs which contain parts of the integer. The general form is f0 +
f1*2ⁿ¹ + f2*2ⁿ² + ... . There are two main options. If we use uint64_t to
represent each limb then we can represent it using five limbs of uint64_t
like this: f0 + f1*2⁵¹ + f2*2¹⁰² + f3*2¹⁵³ + f4*2²⁰⁴. In the normalized form
each fi will be between 0 and 2⁵¹ - 1. That is we could concatenate the bit
representation of each limb to obtain the full 255 bit value. This normalized
form is unique. We can also allow the limbs to take values beyond 2⁵¹ - 1. In
this case the representation is not unique because we can redistribute the
value among different limbs. We can add two 255 bit values, f and g, by
adding each limb resulting in f0+g0, f1+g1, f2+g2, f3+g3, f4+g4. The
resulting limb values may exceed 2⁵¹ - 1 but still fit within the uint64_t
without overflowing. Therefore we can conduct a series of additions without
normalizing and only normalize at the end of the series.

An alternative representation is to use ten uint32_t values that contain in
normalized form 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25 bits. Both
representations are equivalent. If we use uint32_t then we must perform ten
uint32_t additions for each 255 bit addition. If we use uint64_t then we must
perform five uint64_t additions for each 255 bit addition.

If we multiply two 255 bit values using uint32_t limbs we must perform 100
multiplications of two uint32_t values yielding a 64 bit result. This can be
done using standard C++11. If we multiply two 255 bit values using uint64_t
representations we must perform 25 multiplications of two 64 bit values
yielding each a 128 bit result. This cannot be directly expressed in C++11.
There is no uint128_t in the standard. However GCC supports uint128_t when
running on 64 bit CPUs.

The library offers the choice of using 32 or 64 bit limbs. If we use 64 bit
limbs we can also decide to use uint128_t if supported by the compiler or do
the multiplication by first decomposing into the equivalent 32 bit form.

