Notes concerning the Curve25519 implementation
==============================================


Field Representation
--------------------

The Curve25519 is defined in the field of prime 2²⁵⁵ - 19. We must represent
255 bit integers using what is available in C++. We represent it using
several limbs which contain parts of the integer. The general form is f0 +
f1*2ⁿ¹ + f2*2ⁿ² + ... . There are two main options. If we use uint64_t to
represent each limb then we can represent it using five limbs of uint64_t
like this: f0 + f1*2⁵¹ + f2*2¹⁰² + f3*2¹⁵³ + f4*2²⁰⁴. In the normalized form
each fi will be between 0 and 2⁵¹ - 1. That is we could concatenate the bit
representation of each limb to obtain the full 255 bit value. This normalized
form is unique. We can also allow the limbs to take values beyond 2⁵¹ - 1. In
this case the representation is not unique because we can redistribute the
value among different limbs. We can add two 255 bit values, f and g, by
adding each limb resulting in f0+g0, f1+g1, f2+g2, f3+g3, f4+g4. The
resulting limb values may exceed 2⁵¹ - 1 but still fit within the uint64_t
without overflowing. Therefore we can conduct a series of additions without
normalizing and only normalize at the end of the series.

An alternative representation is to use ten uint32_t values that contain in
normalized form 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25, 26, 25 bits. Both
representations are equivalent. If we use uint32_t then we must perform ten
uint32_t additions for each 255 bit addition. If we use uint64_t then we must
perform five uint64_t additions for each 255 bit addition.

If we multiply two 255 bit values using uint32_t limbs we must perform 100
multiplications of two uint32_t values yielding a 64 bit result. This can be
done using standard C++11. If we multiply two 255 bit values using uint64_t
representations we must perform 25 multiplications of two 64 bit values
yielding each a 128 bit result. This cannot be directly expressed in C++11.
There is no uint128_t in the standard. However GCC supports uint128_t when
running on 64 bit CPUs.

The library offers the choice of using 32 or 64 bit limbs. If we use 64 bit
limbs we can also decide to use uint128_t if supported by the compiler or do
the multiplication by first decomposing into the equivalent 32 bit form.




Scalar Multiplication
---------------------

There are several functions that perform scalar multiplications. The most
general ones are *scalarmult()* and *scalarmult_fw()*. Both perform constant
time scalar multiplication with arbitrary bases. Scalarmult uses the
canonical double and add algorithm, it requires 254 point doublings and 254
point additions. Scalarmult_fw uses the fixed window version, which requires
254 point doublings and 64 point additions.

The functions *montgomery_ladder_uv()*, *montgomery_ladder()* and
*montgomery_base()* use the Montgomery ladder to compute the scalar product,
including the Y coordinate. They require the starting u and v Montgomery
coordinates of the base point. The version that takes Edwards coordinates
converts internally to Montgomery before running the ladder. The Montgomery
ladder (even with conversion) is faster than the *scalarmult_fw()*. Like
scalarmult_fw() it requires a constant time and accepts any base point.

The functions *scalarmult_wnaf()* use the windowed NAF algorithm to perform
the multiplication. They are not constant in time and cannot be used with
secret points or scalars. They are faster that the other functions mentioned
above.

The function *scalarbase()* performs constant time multiplication using 64
point additions of precomputed multiples of the base point. This function is
the fastest one from all of the above but works only with the base point.

The key generation and signing require a constant time scalar multiplication
using the base point. This is best achieved with *scalarbase()*. The
signature verification does not require a constant time implementation, but a
double scalar multiplication. This is done with *scalarmult_wnaf()*. The DH
key agreement requires a constant time scalar multiplication with arbitrary
base points. This is done with the Montgomery ladder.

If you require a scalar multiplication starting from a Ristretto encoding you
should

 1. If you need constant time, decode to Montgomery coordinates and use the
	Montgomery ladder.

 2. If you do not need constant time, decode to Edwards coordinates and use
	the WNAF implementation.

 3. If the scalar multiplication is for DH then just use the single coordinate
	Montgomery ladder.






Key types
---------

This library supports several types of keys: Ed25519, X25519, MX + Sign and
Ristretto.

Ed25519 keys are the ones defined in the Ed25519 paper. The Ed25519 paper
defines the public key as having in bits 0-254 the Edwards y coordinate and
in bit 255 the least significant bit of the Edwards x coordinate. It calls
this last bit the sign bit. We refer to these keys as Ed25519 keys.

The normal X25519 DH as defined in the original Curve25519 paper uses only
the Montgomery u coordinate of the point. Bit 255 is defined to be zero,
although most implementations just ignore it. We refer to this type of public
key as a X25519 key. X25519 keys have bit 255 set to zero and bits 0-254
contain the Montgomery u coordinate.

The ristretto draft defines a representation of points such that there is a
mapping between the representation and a point in the main group of
Curve25519. We can thus treat the points as if there was no cofactor. The
ristretto representation has the advantages that it always works in the main
group, providing a group of prime order and it can be directly used with a
Montgomery ladder.

We define another type of key, the MX + Sign keys. These keys have the
Montgomery u coordinate in bits 0-254 and the sign bit (the least significant
bit of the Edwards X coordinate) in bit 255. Given that most existing
implementations ignore bit 255 when performing DH we can use MX + Sign keys
whenever a X25519 key is required. Therefore the MX + Sign key is a full
replacement for the X25519 key. In addition it is possible to decompress the
MX + Sign key to extended Edwards coordinates as efficiently as the
decompression from Ed25519 coordinates. See
https://moderncrypto.org/mail-archive/curves/2015/000376.html for more
information.

Storing an Edwards point to X25519, MX + Sign and Ed25519 requires one
inversion. Storing into Ristretto requires an inverse square root.
Decompressing to an Edwards point from MX + Sign, Ed25519 and Ristretto
requires one inverse square root. Inversions and square roots can be batched
so that for each conversion there is a single operation. They are implemented
by using exponentiation in the field. The overhead difference between the
conversion to/from Ed25519 (the simplest) and Ristretto (the most complex) is
about 10% in required time. When considering the differences for complete
operations that include scalar multiplications, such a signing or
verification, the differences in execution time are around 1%. This is
negligible and we can select whatever representation best fits the current
needs.

We mention below the main features of each representation. Supporting the
Montgomery ladder means that the data in this format can be used efficiently
as input for the Montgomery ladder, without requiring an inversion or field
exponentiation. Supporting qDSA means that the signature can be checked using
only Montgomery arithmetic without Edwards: this allows an implementation
with a smaller code size. We can select a format which provides the
information about the full signing point but let the verifier perform the
trade off between an EdDSA verification (R == sB - hA) or qDSA verification
(R == ±sB ± hA).

X25519:    Simple, widely used. Does not allow the recovery of the full point.
		   It directly supports the montgomery ladder. For signatures we must
		   use qDSA and cannot use EdDSA. It can be used as a common format
		   for keys used for encryption (DH) and signatures (qDSA).

Ed25519:   Widely used. Allows the recovery of the full point. It does not
		   directly support the montgomery ladder. For signatures we must use
		   Ed25519 and cannot use qDSA. It must not be used in protocols that
		   require a prime order group. It is not an efficient format for DH.

MX + Sign: Not a common format. Allows the recovery of the full point. It
		   directly supports the montgomery ladder. It supports signatures
		   with EdDSA and qDSA. It must not be used in protocols that require
		   a prime order. Good format for encryption and signatures.

Ristretto: Not a common format but defined in an IETF draft. Allows the
		   recovery of the full point. It directly supports the montgomery
		   ladder. It supports signatures with EdDSA and qDSA. It can be used
		   with protocols that require a prime order and has no malleability
		   problems. Good format that is future proof.

Ideally we would like a format that directly supports the Montgomery ladder
for fast shared secret computation. We also would like to be able to choose
between EdDSA (always fast) and qDSA (small code size). The two formats that
meet these requirements are MX + Sign and Ristretto. Ristretto has the
advantage that it is defined in an IETF draft (expected to become an RFC) and
it provides a prime order group and therefore avoids many pitfalls. Also you
can use Ristretto today and be assured that future complex protocols will
work with the format.

Therefore the recommendations are:

  1. If you need compatibility with existing X25519 keys use them with X25519 
	 and qDSA

  2. If you need compatibility with existing Ed25519 keys use them, but you 
	 need to convert them to X25519 for DH.

  3. If there are no compatibility constraints use Ristretto. It has been 
	 designed to solve the preceding problems.



Checking the keys
-----------------

See https://moderncrypto.org/mail-archive/curves/2017/000896.html



Signing without Ed25519 public keys
-----------------------------------

Since the publication of Ed25519 people have considered how to reuse existing
X25519 keys for signatures. This would avoid having to redeploy new keys.

If you need compatibility with Ed25519-SHA512 then you must use the Ed25519
public key when computing the hash H(R,A,M), both when signing and when
verifying. A is the public key of the signer. As stated in the Ed25519 paper
A is introduced in the hash to prevent attacks where several keys are
attacked simultaneously. It is not important what is A, as long as it is
unique to each key. In Ed25519 A is set to be the public Ed25519 key of the
signer, but we could also put the MX + Sign or Ristretto keys as well. If we
want to keep compatibility with Ed25519 signatures we must still keep
A=Ed25519.

It is possible to have a round trip conversion between MX + Sign and Ed25519
but X25519 cannot be converted into the other formats because the information
about the sign bit is missing.

One approach would be to use the most significant bit of the signature (of
the scalar s), which is not used by the signature and store there the sign
bit of signer. This would allow signatures that are compatible with existing
X25519 keys. This seems to allow an attacker to choose the sign of A and
therefore give him the ability to modify the verification equation from R =
sB - hA to R == ±SB ± hA. However h = Hash(R,A,M): an incorrect value of R or
A will produce a different hash and the attack will fail.

Another approach is to fix the sign bit to zero.


Negating the scalar / XEd25519
------------------------------

The negate_scalar() function applies the conversion stated in
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-jivsov-ecc-compact-05. If you have a public
and private key pair, {a, A=aB } then you can choose a private key nega = -a
mod L, where L = order of B. In this case the public key will be the same as
A except for the sign bit. If we have an existing X25519 private key whose
public Ed25519 key would have the sign bit set then we can obtain the same
public Ed25519 key with the sign bit clear by replacing the private key with
its negative mod L. Note that if we start from a private key that has been
prepared for X25519 DH then it has bit 254 set and the lowest 3 bits cleared.
The purpose of this bit masking is:

 - make the scalar a multiple of the cofactor (8). If we carry out DH with
   this scalar and Mallory gives us a small order point then the resulting
   shared secret will be zero.

 - ensure that the highest bit of the scalar is set. Somebody may use a
   non-constant time implementation of scalar multiplication. Some of these
   implementations search for the most significant bit which is set and skip
   the reset. By fixing this bit we make sure that they will be constant time.

The private key obtained by negating the X25519 key will not have these bits
set as expected by X25519. Therefore the negated key should not be used for
X25519 DH. DJB specifies this bit masking for Ed25519 too.

XEd25519 states that the private scalar should be negated if required so that
we always get a public key with the sign bit set to zero. XEd25519 seems to
be designed to solve the problem of introducing signatures using X25519 keys
that were already distributed and do not have a sign bit. Furthermore
XEd25519 still requires using the public Ed25519 key when signing (A=Ed25519
when computing H(R,A,M)). The negation operation is very fast and has no
measurable impact in the speed of signing. However computing the Ed25519 key
from either the scalar or the public X25519 key adds a measurable overhead to
the signing operation. This forces us to keep the Ed25519 key around and also
to keep track of the sign bit to figure out if we need to negate the private
scalar. Thus XEd25519 requires more complex key management for signing: in
addition to the scalar and public X25519 keys required for DH we need to keep
the Ed25519 key without the sign bit and also a sign bit.

We do not have the problem of using X25519 keys without sign bits. Our key
generation routines always compute the sign bit. Therefore it is much easier
to just have the private scalar and the public Ristretto or MX + Sign key and
use them for signing too without any special cases.

Sometimes it is objected that this would require implementations that only do
DH key agreement to also implement Edwards arithmetic. This would increase
the complexity significantly. However it is possible to use the existing
Montgomery ladder to compute the sign bit without any significant overhead,
either in time or code complexity. You can see this in the
montgomery_ladder() routine. Therefore even the simple DH implementations can
produce the sign bit without noticeable overhead. Note that Elligator2
already requires the v coordinate.


qDSA
----

The paper "Fast and compact elliptic curve cryptography" proposes that
signatures can be verified using only the Montgomery u coordinates. It uses
Schnorr in the same way as EdDSA but instead of computing R = sB - hA it
computes the Montgomery u coordinates of R, sB and hA and then checks if they
meet the requirement for R == ±SB ± hA. This method does not require using
Edwards coordinates, only the Montgomery u coordinates. Therefore it can be
used to check signatures with signless public keys. The tweetamber file uses
only Montgomery coordinates for everything, resulting in a more compact code,
even if it is a bit slower.

This method has been further developed in the literature and named qDSA. The
advantage of qDSA is that it can verify signatures without using Edwards
arithmetic. This simplifies the implementation. It also checks signatures
using signless keys because it checks for R == ±SB ± hA. The tweetamber
implementation and curverify() compute both sB and hA with a Montgomery
ladder.

Care should be taken that although qDSA is secure it will accept more
signatures than EdDSA. EdDSA requires the correct sign for R, s and A. qDSA
will accept R and A with the opposite signs. This is easy to avoid by stating
that R and A have only 255 bits instead of 256 bits, thus ignoring the sign
bit. qDSA will also accept R,s' pairs with s' = order of B - s if R,s is a
valid signature in EdDSA. These transformations are trivial and if an attacker
could find R,s' he would also automatically find R,s. Therefore the signature
is as secure as EdDSA but is malleable. This may be a problem in some
protocols that require unique signatures. Ed25519 (with the check that s is
less than the group order) does not allow modification of signatures without
having the secret signing key. On the other hand qDSA is malleable and will
allow any sign combination of R, A and s.

Keep in mind that the owner of the secret signing key may also select another
random value for r and also produce other signatures for the same message and
key even for EdDSA.


Ristretto
---------

Ristretto is an extension of Decaf to provide compression and decompression
to the main group for curves with cofactor 8. Therefore it works with
Curve25519. This implementation provides compression and decompression
routines that are just slightly slower than the ones for Edwards or
Montgomery. The impact of this inefficienty in signing or DH is of the same
order as the measurement noise (about 1-2%). We also support direct montgomery
ladder multiplication using the uncompressed ristretto coordinate. This is as
fast as the X25519 montgomery ladder (in fact it is the montgomery ladder
with just an additional squaring of a field element). Therefore ristretto can
be seen as a complete replacement of both X25519 and Ed25519 with a single
coordinate system. It provides the same speed as X25519 and Ed25519.


