Tweetcmd
========

Tweetcmd is a command line tool that uses tweetamber.?pp to encrypt, decrypt, 
sign and verify files. The encrypted files are compatible with the amber 
tool. The signatures generated by tweetcmd are compatible with amber but 
signatures generated with amber are compatible with tweetcmd if no comments 
or additional certificates are attached to the signature. The keys are not 
stored anywhere. Instead the operation of the tool is similar to the ringless 
mode of amber.

Summary
-------

tweetcmd [opts] file1 file2

-c encrypt file1 into file2. Ask for a password used to encrypt.

-C decrypt file1 into file2. Ask for a password used to decrypt.

-e encrypt file1 into file2. Ask for a password that will be used to derive 
   the encrypting key. Supply the recipients using the -r option.

-E decrypt file1 into file2. Ask for a password that will be used to derive 
   the decryption key. 

-s sign the contents of file1 and put the signature into file2. Ask for a 
   password that will be used to derive the signing key.

-v verify that the contents of file1 correspond to the signature in file2. Show
   the padlock corresponding to the signer.

-p show the padlock. Ask for the password used to derive the key and the padlock.

-r <padlock> Supply the padlock of the recipient when encrypting with -e. You 
   may provide this option multiple times as required.

-n <shifts> Supply the shifts parameter for scrypt when encrypting with -c.

-b <block_size> Supply the block size to be used.

-f <filler_size> Supply the number of filler bytes per block.


Although the encrypted file format is common to both tweetcmd and amber the 
advanced functions are available only in amber. The Tweet* files are intended 
to be a minimalistic selection that can support encryption and signatures. 

